# Capítulo 2: ¡Creando un sitio web!

* Inicio del sitio web + Generación de imágenes
* Terminando la Estructura del Sitio Web
* Creando varias páginas
* Introducción a JavaScript: Cómo hacer que el sitio web sea interactivo
* Aplicación de JavaScript: desplazamiento suave y control deslizante de imágenes
* Cómo conectar un formulario de contacto a una base de datos

## Inicio del sitio web + Generación de imágenes

Start of the Website + Generating Images

In this lesson, you will learn to create a basic demo website as a freelancer that designs websites using AI. We will instruct ChatGPT to write code for us with whatever basic features and design we want on the webpage.

Hi, Veron, welcome to the next lesson. So I thought it would be fun if the website we were actually going to make using this chatgpt A, I would be a website where we offer our services as a freelancer that makes websites very fast using A I assistance. So you all are immediately able to start your freelancing business once you're done with this course, which you know, you can thank me later for that.

So let's first look at what such a freelancing website would actually look like so that we are able to ask chatgpt a precise question about what it has to create for us. So let's quickly go to Google and let's type in design of a personal freelancer website and let's go to images and see what it says.

Alright, so let's scroll through this a little bit. It looks like most of these start with a big picture of the person themselves with a small introduction about what they do. And then typically it looks like it is followed by an about section. So a slightly longer introduction about what they offer and who they are.

So I think we can start with that. So let's go to Chatgpt. So I'm going to ask it, give me the HTML code for a website within the header, a big picture on the right and on the left, the title of a freelance web designer, a two line introduction of the A I assisted web design services I offer and a call to action below the header. I want an about section that introduces me and my service in about 200 words. And let's see what it gives us. All right. So it gave us the title freelance web designer.

And apparently we are specialized in creating modern websites. And it also wrote us this 200 words paragraph and it left blank spaces that we can fill in our own name, our own location and our number of years of experience within this industry, which is very nice.

And so let's copy this whole code and actually instead of selecting it all and hit control C, you can also just go to the top right, right here and click copy code. There we go. All right. So now here back in visual studio, we can just delete this code that we have right here and paste this new code right over it. And then we can hit control s to save this file and then we can right mouse, click right here and go to the preview in the browser and let's see what this looks like. All right. So as you can see this still looks quite ugly, but of course, we haven't used any CSS code yet. And CSS is the layer on top of HTML that we can use to change this appearance. So to get some CSS codes for this HTML code, we can simply go back to Chatgpt and now also provide some accompanying CSS codes to make the website look beautiful and modern. And let's see what it gives us. All right. So it looks like it gave us a website with a dark background and white text. And it also changed some oral things like the font and the font size.

So let's just copy this code and then let's go back to visual studio and now we actually have to put the CSS code in a new file. So let's go to the top left here and hit new file and let's make that CSS codes dot CSS and let's hit enter and now we have this new file and it knows this has to be a CSS file because we put the extension dot CSS behind it. And now let's just paste the CSS code we just copied in this file. There we go. And then let's hit control s and then let's go to the preview in the browser to see what this looks like. And as you can see, it still looks the same and nothing changed. And that's because we haven't linked this CSS file to the HTML file. So of course, we could manually add the link to the CSS file in this HTML code, but we can also just ask chatgpt to do it for us. So let's go back to Chatgpt and let's ask it, please provide the HTML code that refers to the HTML file and tell me where I have to place it and let's hit enter and see what it gives us. All right. So it looks like in the head, we have to add this part. So a link to the style sheet and the reference is style dot CSS. And it also says right here, we have to create a file named style dot CSS. So we may have to change the name of our CSS file.

So it looks like from this description, we can just copy this link right here and go to visual studio and right here in the head of our HTML below the title. Let's just paste that right there. And now it refers to style dot CSS. So we have to rename this CSS code file or we can just change this reference to what we called our CSS file, which is CSS code. So it's a TS to save this. And let's now go to the preview in the browser and there we go. So it looks like it gave us a header with a black background and the rest of the website has a white background and it's already starting to look like a nice website.

But one thing I'm missing here is the image and right here it just says header image. So let's go to our visual studio code and let's see where it's created the image. So right here in the HML, we can see this deck that says image source header image dot JPEG. But of course, we don't actually have an image that this is referring to.

So let's get that image. So there are two things we can now do. We could of course upload an image of ourselves to this website, but we can also do something else. So most of you probably know openai company behind chatgpt also created an image generation service. So most of you probably know about Dali where you can generate 50 free images, but you have to pay for it after that. But there's actually also a completely free unlimited version on the open A website. So if we go back to chrome and we type in www dot open dot A I forward slash images and we hit enter, we get this OpenAI image generation page. Now if we go back to the example of freelancing pages, so we want an image, something like this. But A I is very bad at generating actual human faces. So it's better if we create some sort of cartoon or drawing is sort of a persona of the freelancer we want to portray.

So let's go back to the OpenAI image generation websites and with most of these a is it is best to be as specific as possible to get a good output. So let's type in a young creative person with his arms crossed, smiling excitedly with a white background, cartoon, digital art. And let's see what that gives us.

All right. So some of these might be usable, but let's give it one more run and see what comes up. All right. So a lot of these are generating images of Children. So instead of a young creative person, let's just write a creative person and let's hit enter and see what it gives us.

All right. So that's already starting to look a little bit better, but let's give it one more run. All right. So a lot of these are actually smiling a little bit too excitedly, in my opinion. So let's actually change this to smiling excitedly while still looking professional and let's see what that gives us nice. So I think this one looks pretty cool.

So what we can do now is just download it right here and I'm going to place this image in the visual studio code folder that we made. So the folder named my first website. All right. So I went ahead and added that image to the visual studio code folder. And as you can see once we open visual studio code, this image immediately pops up on the top left here with the other files and now we can refer to this image within our code. So if we go to the HTML code right here, that refers to the image in the header, we can just delete this random name that jet GPT gave us and we can just start typing a and visual studio code. As you can see, it is very good at autofilling what we want to type.

So even with one letter, it already knows, I want to refer to the image and I can now just click this or hit enter and there we go. And if we now just hit control s to save this and go to the preview, as you can see this image popped up here perfectly. But I think this will look a little bit nicer here if the background would be transparent and we can actually do that very easily. So there are two websites that I recommend for deleting the background of an image very easily and both of them will be linked in the lesson resources. So the first is remove do BG you can simply drag an image in here and it will remove the background for you as you can see. So you can just immediately freely download the 500 by 500 version of this picture or you can download the HD version, but that's going to cost you credits and you only get a limited amount of credits and beyond that, you will have to pay for them. But since the full size of this image is only 512 by 512 pixels. Anyway, the preview version is going to be pretty close to the final result.

So we might as well just select that one. But before we do that, as you can see right here, there's a little bit that it missed. So we can just click edit and then go to erase, restore and then we get this eraser tool and we can just click right there to make sure that final piece is also deleted and let's download and download image.

So that's the first website that we can use remove dot PG. But there's also another website and that's a service by Adobe. Adobe Express. And if you type into Google, Adobe Express background remover and click the first link, get to this website. And this is a very good, very powerful background remover. And you can also create all these effects as you can see here, but you do have to create an account here. So it will take a little bit longer to set up. But then you have a pretty nice background remover. So if you plan to use this more often and it is quite often used in web design to get transparent backgrounds, I would definitely sign up for Adobe Express. But for now, I'm just going to use the results that remove BG gave us.

So here we are back in visual studio code and I went ahead and added the new removed background image and I deleted the old image with the background. So now let's delete this reference to the previous image and let's start typing again. Let's write a and it will autocomplete and it hit enter and there we go. And as you can see it added this extension to the name, remove BG preview.

So let's again, hit control S to save this and let's go to the preview. And as you can see right there, we have this very nice image avatar right there in our header. All right. So that's it for this lesson. In the next lesson. We are going to work on extending this website and also making it look a little bit more exciting. So I hope to see you in that one.

## Terminando la Estructura del Sitio Web

Finishing the Structure of the Website

In this demonstration, we will understand how to complete the structure of our basic website with more creativity and added features and presentation. We will instruct ChatGPT to provide the code for the website design with the outlines we desire in a one-page site.

All right. So chatgpt updated and did not save any of my chat history, but I'll show you in a minute how we can have chatgpt work with our existing code even if it does not have it stored at that moment. But first, we want to expand our site a little bit. So right now we have this header section and this about me section, but this is not a very exciting or convincing freelancer website.

So the last time I got inspiration for this website is by simply going on Google and typing in freelancer websites. And we basically copied these elements off of what was most commonly used. But of course, we can also just ask Chatgpt, what elements should be in a good promoting freelancer website. So let's go to Chatgpt and let's ask it.

I have a website to promote my freelancing business where I do a, I assisted web design. Give me the outlines for such a website and please make it a one pager and let's actually say I want because we don't have the website yet. And let's see what jet GP T gives us. And it looks like I have to refresh this page.

So let's copy this text, let's refresh and let's just paste it and ask it again. All right. So it's going to give us some sections. So it starts with the header that should communicate our value in an about section as we already have. And then it also suggested a bunch of other sections. So it suggests a services section showing the services, we offer a portfolio section, a testimonial section, a contact section, a footer and also we should create some sort of a navigation for our website, which of course, this is not that important for us yet because we only have a one pager. So now for the next step, we would of course want jet GBT to add these sections or maybe multiple them to our own code.

But right now, we can just ask it to add it to our code because it doesn't know what our code is yet because we started this new session. But if we go to Visual Studio and we simply copy the HTML code right here and go back to Chatgpt. I'm going to tell it this is my HTML code. Please remember it for my following question. And then I'm just going to paste the HTML code. I just copied from Visual Studio and let's hit enter and as you can see it says it saved the HTML code. So now to remember it and we can refer to it in the future. But let's first also copy our CSS code. So let's go here. Let's hit control A to select it all, control C to copy it. And let's go to Chatgpt and let's tell it this CSS code belongs to the HTML code. I just sent you, please also save it for my question and I'm just going to paste all the CSS code and hit enter. And as you can see, it also saves this code And now we can actually start asking you to do something new with this code.

So if you go back to our website, the first thing I actually want to change before we add anything new is I want to make sure that the content of this header is only as wide as the content of the rest of the website. So as wide as this about me section, so let's go to visual studio and in the CSS, we can see that here in this section piece in the CSS code, it says max width is 800 pixels. So we also want the header content to be only within 800 pixels. So we can go to Chatgpt and tell it in the above code, please change the CSS of the header so that all of the content of the header is no wider than 800 pixels and it hit enter and see if it does that.

All right. So it looks like this time, it didn't give us the full CSS code and it only gave us the header section and it looks like we can just replace the current header section that we have with this one. So, let's see here. This is the header part of the CSS code and it's based in the new parts and it added these final two rows and it hits control s to save that and let's go to preview in default browser. All right. So that's not exactly what we wanted. I would have preferred if this background would have stayed the full width, but it's fine for now. All right. So let's now go back to Chatgpt and let's look at the sections that it suggested us for freelancing website.

So I think a testimonial section will look pretty cool on our website. And also I would like the website to have a footer. So let's ask Chatgpt to give us those sections. Now add to our website, the testimonial section you suggested and also give the website a footer with our contact information and it's it. And so it looks like it isn't going to repeat all the codes that we asked it to integrate this code in. It's just going to give us the blend coat, but it is creating the sections, we asked it and the text it's writing, it's actually pretty good. So this is of course, where Chatgpt really shines is in creating this sort of copy, written content. And so it's also going to give us the CSS code. So it just gave us the CSS codes and the HTML code without integrating it. And I'm going to see if it can integrate it for us. So I'm going to ask it now, please integrate the code you just wrote in the code. I asked you to save previously and let's see if it can do that.

All right. So it starts at the top. This is looking good and here we can see the CSS code dot CSS. We know this is the code we asked it to save because this is the name we actually created ourselves. So this is going to be a lot of text. I wonder if it will be able to do all of it.

But if not, there is a trick we can do to have it actually completed. All right. So it did actually manage to give us all of the HTML code with the new integration. So that's really nice. So let's just copy this code and paste it in our HTML code. So let's select all of that and paste and then let's go back here to the CSS code, Js, let's copy that and let's go to our CSS code file, go to the bottom and we can just paste that right there to the bottom of the file and hit control s to save that one and save this one as well. And let's go to the preview and see what it's made us.

All right. So here's the parts we already had then. Here's this pretty nice testimonial section and of course, from here, we can edit this text and format it however we want. But for now, this looks pretty good and it also made us this footer and it's pretty funny right here. It says copyright 2022 even though it's drained on data from 2021 and before, and it's actually 2023 right now, but of course, we can change all of that later. All right. So let's just keep going with this. So let's go back to Jet GPT. Let's scroll up and let's add the other sections that Davis. So I'm going to ask it now, also add a services and a portfolio section and I want the portfolio section to have an image slider.

So I'm going to ask it and give the portfolio section, an image slider and let's just see how much we can ask it in one time. So I'm going to ask it and also add a contact section and a navigation bar that when an item is clicked, automatically scrolls to the proper section. So I'm not sure if it's going to be able to do this, but let's just ask it and let's scroll down so we can see what it's doing. All right. So now it's actually filling it with Lorem Epsom. So it's not going to customize it for the freelance websites. That we asked it to create it. So now it's doing the portfolio section and it's actually creating the slider that we asked it to.

So it looks like it created three images that can be in the slider. And now it's creating the contact form for us and it's creating the navigation bar. So here it is telling us that we need to also use javascript to make the image slider and the navigation bar work. But since we haven't covered javascript yet, we will leave that out for now.

And the navigation bar will actually still work even without javascript. But by adding the javascript, we will be able to add a nice animation to the scroll down. But for now, let's just ask JGB to also add the CSS code to the HTML sections. It just made us. So I'm going to ask it, please also provide the CSS code for all the sections you just gave. All right. So it seems this is the first time we asked too much code from chatgpt and sometimes it will just stop as it did right there. And if you would simply ask it to continue, often, it will repeat the whole code and won't be able to finish it again. But if you ask chatgpt to continue where it left off in a very specific specific way, it will just finish the code for us. So I'm going to ask it, you did not finish writing the full CSS code, please continue where you left off at hashtag contact label without repeating any of the code you already gave. And let's see what that does. So as you can see, it apologizes for not finishing it and then just gives us exactly what we want.

All right. So now we have the CSS code and the HTML codes right here for the portfolio section for the services section and also for a navigation bar right here. So let's first copy the HTML code and let's place that in our visual studio code.

And let's go down here, let's put it above the footer and let's hit control V to place all that in and it's at control to save that. And then let's go back to Chatgpt and it gave us the CSS code, the added CSS code in two pieces. So let's first copy the first part and let's go back to Visual Studio. Let's go to the CSS code. Let's go to the bottom here and just paste that below there.

And then as you can see, it didn't finish this contact label part. But if we go back to Chatgpt and we, this section, you can see it starts right here exactly where it left off. So if we go to Visual Studio, we can just put it right there, hit control V and that finished it off perfectly right there.

And now there was also the navigation bar section that it gave us separately So let's copy that as well. And let's go to visual studio again, let's paste that hit control s to save it. And let's see what that looks like. And there we go. So we have our trusted avatar right there. We have the testimonials. We have a services section and now it did only Lom Epsom. So it didn't customize the text for us. And here's the portfolio with the image slider that is not working because we don't have the javascript. And right here we have a contact section and it looks like the fields where we can actually type, don't have any borders. So the CSS coded DAS there isn't very pretty, but it does contain a name section, an email section and the actual message part and also a set button which is pretty nice. And then right now all the way to the bottom right area of our navigation bar. And I actually want this to be right here above the About me section. So let's go back to visual studio and let's go to the HTML code. Let's select this navigation section right here. That's it. Control X to cut that away there.

And let's go to the About me section, which is right here below the header and let's paste the navigation section right here and now creates control S and we go to the preview, we have the navigation bar right there and the shoots also work right now. So if you click portfolio, it brings us to the portfolio section. And if we add contact brings us all the way to the bottom.

If we hit about, it's already there. If we had services, it drops us down to the services place. So the navigation bar already works, which is very nice. So now there are a few small things that I want to change. So let's go back to jet GPT and I'm going to ask it for the services section instead of a filler text, add different services that an A I assisted web design freelancer might offer and I made a typo there. So let's change that it has to be freelancer. And I'm also going to ask it to change the CSS codes of the contact form to make it look more modern.

So I'm going to ask it, please also change the CSS code of the contact form to make it look more modern. All right. So it wrote pretty nice text for the HTML parts of the services section. And now it's going to give us a new contact form CSS code and there it is. So let's first copy the CSS code.

Let's go to visual studio to the CSS code and let's find the contact sections. So that's going to be this, this, this, this and this and let's paste the new contact form CSS codes. Then let's go back to visual studio and let's copy the sections, HTML codes and let's go to the ATM L code, find the services section, that's right there to there and it's space depth and now we have it with actual good copy written text. So let's hit control s here. And let's also go to the CSS code and its control s and let's go to the preview to see what this looks like.

And there we go. So let's go to the services section and you can see right here, it added this new text for us and the context now also looks a lot better where you can actually see the text fields where you can input this. Now, of course, this contact form won't work yet as of right now because we don't have this connected to a database. So there's nowhere this message will actually be sent, but we are actually going to look into that in future lessons. So stay tuned for that. But that's it for this lesson. You in the next one.

## Creando varias páginas

Creating Multiple Pages

This video will teach us how to convert the one-page website we created into multiple pages. We will instruct ChatGPT to provide an outline to create multiple pages for our website and how to integrate it into the website design.

Hi, everyone. Welcome to the next lesson. So in this one, we are going to turn this one page or website into a website with multiple pages. So what I want at the end of this video is if I click about, it's not going to bring me down to the about section on this website, but it's going to give me to a separate page. So let's first go to visual studio and right here we have our HTML code and right now we have HTML file and this file. But if we want multiple pages, we are going to need more HTML files because every page on a website is going to have its own HTML file. And now since we are pretty soon going to work with a server online to actually upload our website, it starts getting important how we name these files.

So now we just named it home dot HML and C SSS, but those are actually not the names they are supposed to have. So the HTML file for our front page is actually supposed to be called index dot HTML. So let's change that we can simply hit right mouse, click rename and then change that to index dot HL and hit enter.

And our CSS file is actually supposed to be called style dot CSS. So let's also change that name and let's hit enter. And now getting multiple pages is actually not that difficult. So we could simply create a new file right here and we could name that contact dot HTML and hit enter. And now there's one thing we need to change first before we go to the preview, which is if we go to index dot HTML, we actually refer in this file to the CSS file. And now since we changed the name, we also have to change the reference within this code. So if you see right here, the link to the style sheet is still going to CSS code dot CSS and that won't work anymore. So let's change that to style dot CSS. And now if we save that and if we go to the preview in our browser, as you can see this all looks just the same and we just created this context page. But if we click here, of course, we still are led here because we didn't change that reference. But if we go up here to the link right now, you can see we are at index dot HTML.

If we simply change it to contact and hit enter, we get to this empty contact page that we just created as you can see on the top left here. So that's how easy it is to create new pages. But let's actually see if Chatgpt can do it for us. So here we are at Chatgpt and what I'm going to ask it now is I have a one pager website and want to turn it into a multiple page websites where every section gets its own page. This is my HTML code of the one pager. Please give me the separate HTML codes for each page. And then I'm just going to go into visual studio and select this whole code, copy it and then I'm going to paste it right there because we made some changes and it's good to just give the whole code again so that it will know exactly what to do. So let's hit enter and see if it's able to do that. Alright. Awesome. So as you can see, it gave us the name that we have to name this HTML file and I'm just going to write that part and let's see if it actually parses up the pages the way we want it to. Awesome. So as you can see it made this navigation bar right here and it also changes the text. So it used to be hashtag contact and that would make it so that it will scroll down and now it actually names it to the correct HTML page that we wanted to go to. It's creating the about HTML page and it's also putting in the navigation bar there as well so that we are not stuck once we go to another page and they're creating the services page and it looks like there was a little too much. So as we did in the last lesson, we can just ask it to continue if we ask very specifically. So I'm going to ask it, you did not finish giving the codes of all the HTML files. Please continue where you left off on the services dot HTML page without repeating any of the code you already gave. And I can see I made a typo. So let's make that please and let it enter and see if it will continue for us. And they do, it just continues from the services dot HTML page and they're creating the portfolio page and it looks like it ran out of steam again.

So let's just copy this message that we send it right here to continue and let's paste that here. And now instead of continuing from services dot HTML, let's ask it to continue from portfolio dot HTML and let's hit enter and see if it will continue.

Awesome. Now creating the testimonials and it's not able to finish this one. So let's hit control V again. And now instead of services, let's make that testimonials and it's with enter again.

All right. So it looks like it was able to do the context form and the testimonial section in one go. But I actually wonder if there was anything more it was going to write this. So I'm just going to ask it to continue from the contact section and see if there was anything more it was going to give us and let's hit the answer.

All right. So it looks like there was no more codes it was going to give us, but it did give us an explanation of how to use this HTML code and that we have to link it all correctly. And also that we can use one CSS file for all these separate HTML files. So we can now go in visual studio and create all these HTML files and paste all this code in there.

So if we go to a section with a navigation bar, we can see all the files that we have to make right here. So let's go to visual studio and we already have the contact dot HTML and now let's create a new file. Let's tell that testimonials dot HTML and let's create a new file called services dot HTML and another file called about dot HTML. And finally, we have a file called portfolio dot HTML and it hit enter. So I'm going to leave the front page as it is for now. But let's fill up all these other pages. So let's go to Chatgpt and let's go to the top here where we asked it. There we go.

So we can actually replace the navigation bar on the home page so that this will all lead to all the other pages. And let's select the navigation bar on the current index page and let's paste the new ones so that we have all these links to the other pages. And then let's go to Chatgpt again. Let's copy the code about page. Let's go to Visual Studio, let's go to the about dot HTML file.

Let's paste that. Let's hit control s to save it and let's go to the other pages. So next we have the services page right there. Let's go to visual Studio services, paste, hit control. S let's go to JGE BT again. Let's find the portfolio page code. There we go, go to portfolio hit paste, hit control S to save it and I'll do that for the other pages as well. All right. So as you can see right now, we have all these HML files with the proper code. And now if we go to the index dot HTML page and we go to preview and default browser, this should now all work. So we have this index page, the home page that we didn't change anything about except for this navigation bar. So now this should link to different pages. So let's click about and there we go, we are at the about page, we can go to services, go to the services page, portfolio, portfolio page with the image slider that's not yet working, then we can go to the testimonials page and the contact page. So now one final thing I would want to change is that every single one of these pages has the footer as well that we have on the home page. So we have this footer here and I actually want that to be on all the pages. So what I can simply do is go to visual studio, go to the index page, find the footer section, which is right here, select that and copy it and then go to all the pages and simply just above the final body tech paste it. There we go and let's do that for all these pages. And let's also make sure we save all these pages and then if we go to preview and default browser, so we go to the about page and there we go, we do have this footer, but of course, it's not placed very nicely, but I think that's fine for now and I'll see you in the next lesson.

## Introducción a JavaScript: Cómo hacer que el sitio web sea interactivo

Introduction to JavaScript: Making the Website Interactive

After learning how to create a basic website, you will now learn to make the website more presentable, interactive, and enjoyable. We will use JavaScript. We will instruct ChatGPT to help us with the JavaScript code required to redesign our website further.

All right guys, welcome to the next lesson. So we now know how to make a basic website, but to make it a bit more interesting and dynamic, we are going to need to use some javascripts. So in this lesson, we will give you a very basic overview of javascript. And more importantly, some things you can do and chatgpt gives you javascript codes that does not work as you may have found already in the past lessons.

You really don't need to know very much about HTML and CSS to create a website with chatgpt, but it is nice to recognize what is going on. So you are able to ask better questions to Chatgpt and you're also quickly able to make some changes or fix things when they don't work. The same is true for javascript. So we are just going over some important functions and look at an example.

So we can understand the logic of what is happening in the javascript code. The first thing that is important to understand about javascript in contrast to HTML is that HTML is used to define the structure and layout of a web page while javascript is used to add interactivity and dynamic behavior. A web page by writing instructions that a computer can execute javascript is a high level programming language. This basically means that this language does not need to worry about any side tasks needed for a program to work like finding storage. This is all DOM in the background. This is what the javascript looks like that makes a navigation bar scroll smoothly to that element on the page.

Instead of just immediately jumping there like we saw before on our one pager, we will go through this code step by step to kind of show you what is going on. And a lot of these steps also find in different javascript codes. First at the top A variable is created that links to an HTML element. Konst stands for constant and putting this before a variable name will make that a constant.

So non changeable variable, if you write K number equals three, the variable will always be three. So later writing number equals two will not work. If we skip down a little bit, you can see the word let in the same color as consts also creates a variable. But the let variable is able to change later on.

Sometimes we have found jet GPT can accidentally make a variable constant when it does need to change later on, which made the code not work. So that's something to keep an eye on. Now, next, we see that the constant variable navbar links is made equal to the function document query selector all. So the query selector selects an element of the HTML code.

The normal query selector refers to just one element and you could for instance, place an id of an ATM L element in there. But here we have a navigation bar with multiple elements in it. So multiple tabs referring to multiple sections of the page and that's why we add all to the end of query selector so that all of those elements in the navigation bar are selected.

Now in the brackets behind that it says NAV and A, this will select all the elements in the HTML file that have the elements NAV and A, the NAV refers to the navigation bar and the A refers to the anchoring deck as you can see here, which defines a hyperlink. So we basically select all the hyperlinks in the navigation bar as you can see in this example. All right. So now we see this constant variable navbar links that was just created and this whole function is added to it and this function will produce the desired behavior we want when clicking each element of the navigation bar. Now how this function works is that we first see the four each part. And this means that this function is going to apply to each of the elements of the NAVBAR links constant that we just made. So basically all the tabs that we have in the navigation bar and then it adds an event listener and it says click in its brackets. So this is going to get activated when any of the elements in the NAVBAR are clicked, add event listener basically waits until the specified event has occurred.

And then it executes the function in its brackets in this case, the event function. And below here, you can see this event function and behind it, it says prevent default. So normally without the javascript, when you click the NAV bar, it will jump to that section immediately and we want to stop that and have a smooth scroll instead.

So prevent default stops that normal default behavior. Now moving on, we see this L which as mentioned before is going to make a variable that can later be changed. So first, a variable named target is created and it is made equal to the value of the attributes, each ref of the specific element that is clicked in the NAV bar. So in the event listener, one specific link in the NAV bar is selected when it is clicked. And this get attribute selects the actual reference in the NAV bar for instance hashtag about and then the next variable that is created is the target element variable. This again as we saw in the beginning uses the query selector, but this time, it does not have all behind it.

So it only selects one element of our HTML code and what it will select is the section that is referred to in the specific link in the NAVBAR by using the target variable that was created one row up. So instead of having hashtag about the target element, when the about link in the NAV bar is split, refer to the about section in our HTML file.

Of course, this would all only work if the NAV BAR in our HTML code is correctly linked to each of the sections already as it does on our website. Now finally, the actual scrolling happens in the last row. First, the target element is selected which is the element in our HTML that the click link on the navigation bar refers to. And the scroll into view function is placed behind it.

And there are two parameters in this function namely behavior which is set to. So we will get a smooth scroll, which is exactly what we want and block which is at the center. So the center of our screen will scroll to the center of that element. So that is the whole javascript code for a smooth scroll of a navigation bar. Such step by step, understanding of every code is not necessary at all since jet gpt will typically just give you working codes. But now we have a basic understanding of what code variables refer to which parts. And the most important thing is to make sure the javascript correctly refers to the HL elements using query selector get attributes. Now in javascript, there's not just one way to do things, but typically there are many ways to get the same results. Here, you can for instance, see another way to create the smooth scroll. A lot of these separate elements are the same. But instead of the for each function here, we have a for loop and a slightly different scroll function is used as well. But if jet gpt would give this as an output and for instance, a variable name would be wrong. I think you would now be able to find the error and fix it.

There are some things you can do to make finding and solving errors a bit easier and what we are going to look into now. All right. So first, I'm going to show you how to use inspect in the browser. So we are back at our website. Let's first go to preview in default browser, open in default browser and I'm going to use Chrome in this example.

And this is going to work slightly differently depending on which browser you are using, but the basics are going to be the same. So in chrome, if you hit the right mouse button and hit inspect this panel on the right here is going to pop up. And if we close it real quick, we can also get here by hitting control shift I or buying control shift C 

So now first what it's going to show us is this element step. And here we can actually see our HTML codes. And if we hover over it, you can see that element on the browser, on the actual websites light up. And what's really cool about this is that by using color, it also displays what part of the elements is the content, the padding the border and the margin.

So if something looks wrong in the layout, you can check here what the problem is. So for example, in this about me section, you can see the content is the blue parts. And if we scroll down here, you can actually see a representation of what all the colors. So here, the green part is the padding around the elements. The blue is the actual content and the red or the orange right here is the margin.

So if you wanted this section to be a little bit smaller, we could actually just increase the margin of this element and it will be a smaller section or if we want it to be wider, we could decrease the margin. So that's the element section, but that's not what we're actually here for. If you go to the top here next to elements, there is the console and this is where errors will pop up if there is some errors in loading your websites.

And as you can see here, there are three loads errors. And that's because if we go to our code and we go to our portfolio section. We have this image slider right here and it's created random names for three images of the image slider. But of course, we don't actually have those images.

And so it's going to give an error when trying to load those images. So now let me also quickly show you what an error in javascript looks like. So here is the javascript code that was made for the Bakery website, which I had jet GPT generate in the introduction of this course. So let's write here in this javascript GST space number equals three. So as we saw in the example, Gunst is going to make a constant of this number and the value of that number is going to be set to three. And now let's write a semicolon because that's part of the syntax of javascript. Everything has to end with a semicolon. And now we know this number, this variable cannot change because it is a constant.

But now if we write number equals two and semicolon, this should give an error because this number variable cannot change anymore. So let's hit control s to save this and let's open this website. And now if we control shift I to open the console, you can see that there is this error that it gave us and it says assignment to constant variable and it even tells us right here where the error occurred. So it happened at the javascript file at row 22 character eight. So if you go to our code, you can see right here at row 22 and then it happened at 12345678. So when we try to equal this variable to two, that's when the error occurred. So that's very nice to know if we want to change the error ourselves. And that's the first thing that we can do. We can look at our code ourselves and try to fix it. But there's another thing we can do. So when I get an error, I can also just ask Chatgpt to solve it for me. So I can select this part and copy it and then go to Chatgpt and then I'm going to type, I got this error in my javascript file and then I'm going to paste the error and I'm going to write, how can I fix this and let's see what it gives us. And as you can see, it gives us exactly what we need.

So right here it tells us that we can change guns to lead. And then of course, we wouldn't get the error because lets you are able to change later on. And then here it tells us how we can problem solve if this variable isn't supposed to change and to change our code so that it actually doesn't change. And then here it even tells us a specific situation where K is able to change if we assign it to an object or a string, but we don't need to worry about that right now. So the most important thing about this in the future is if you ever get an error in your website, you are now able to find that error and ask jet TPT how to solve it. And even if the error occurs in a code that ChatGPT gave you and you tell it that it gave that error with that code, then ChatGPT is also able to change the code for you so that it doesn't get the error. So that's it for this lesson. And the next lesson, we are actually going to use javascript to make our website a little bit nicer. See you in that lesson.

## Aplicación de JavaScript: desplazamiento suave y control deslizante de imágenes

Applying JavaScript: Smooth Scroll and Image Slider

We will continue to add more features to our website and make it more functional by learning to add a smooth scroll bar and an image slider. We will instruct ChatGPT to provide us with the JS code for the same and modify it as necessary to our requirements.

All right guys, welcome to the next lesson. So in this one, we are going to create a smooth scroll down from the navigation bar as we saw in the example of the javascript in the last lesson. And we are also going to finally get the image slider to work. So first let's take a look at our websites. So right here now we have this navigation bar and down here we have this non working image slider.

So first off this navigation bar isn't actually a scrolling navigation bar anymore because we made the multiple pages. So instead of scrolling down to portfolio, now it's just going to give us the portfolio page itself. So we first need to change that back to where actually going to send us down to the portfolio section. So let's go to our code that just select the whole HTML code of the front page and copy it. And let's go to Chatgpt and I'm going to type this is the HTML code for my front page. Please add another navigation bar that scrolls down to each of the sections. So I hope this is going to give me a second navigation bar, we are still able to go to the other pages, but we are also able to scroll down in the front page. So let's change this typo, let's make that please. And then let's hit a column and add our HTML codes and let's hit enter and see if we can do that.

All right. So it looks like it wasn't able to finish the codes. The servers are a bit overloaded at the moment, but it did give us this navigation section with hashtag about and hashtag and then all the sections and that is actually the only part we need. So we can just copy this part. Hit control C and then go to visual studio and paste it below this navigation section. So now we have two navigation bars. So if we hit control s to save that and we can take a look at that in our website and there we go, the top one is going to send us to the pages. And if we go to the home page, we can hit testimonials and it will jump to testimonials. And now we want the javascript to make sure that it actually scrolls down nicely to that section instead of jumping there.

So let's go to Chatgpt and I'm going to ask it, please give me the javascript code to make the navigation bar scroll smoothly to the section and let's hit enter and see what it gives us and it tells us we can use the scroll into view function, which we also saw in the last lesson.

And right here it gave us this nice code, which is pretty similar to the one we saw in the last lesson with slight changes, but it looks like this should all work. And then here it even gives us a little bit of an explanation of what everything does. And then here it even tells us how we can link this to our HTML file and similar to how you can have CSS codes in the H TM L file. As we saw in the explanation video of HML and CSS, we can also place our javascript code in the HTML file by using the script deck, but that's not the nicest way to do it. So I actually want a separate javascript file and I want to link that file to the HTML file similar to how we have it now with the CSS file. So let's ask GPT how we can do this. So I'm going to ask, I want a separate javascript file. How can I link this to my HTML file? And I'm going to hit enter.

All right. So it told us we can use this script tech to link to our javascript file. And here it's called main dot js. So that's why we have to name our javascript file and then we can place it in the head tech. But here it actually says it's best practice to put it at the bottom of our body element. And it is actually true. 

So it is best to put the javascript link at the bottom of our body so that this only loads once the rest of the page is already loaded. And then here it wants to tell us a different format that we can put the javascript code for smooth scrolling, but it didn't finish that. So I'm going to ask you to finish that and it looks like it just gave us a different version of the scroll function, which we don't need because we'll just use the one at the top. So let's first select this link to the javascript file. Let's copy that and let's go to Visual Studio and here is the index dot HML page and let's go to the bottom of the body tech and just above it, let's paste that link to the javascript file and let's now actually create this javascript file right here in Visual Studio. So let's click new file right here and let's call that main dot js and let's hit enter and the dot JS is the extension of the javascript file.

And now visual Studio also knows that this is going to be a javascript file. And now let's go back to JG BT and let's select the javascript code for the smooth scroll and let's go to Visual Studio and let's paste it right there and it says control S to save it. And let's also save the index dot HML. It says control s there we go. 

And then let's go to the preview in the default browser. And now if we hit testimonials, it should scroll there nicely and it works. That's very nice. And it says contact and that works as well. All right. So that's the first part of our javascript for this lesson done. So now what we want to do is get the javascript to make the image slider work.

So before we actually get the code to make this work, let's first find three images that we can use for our web design portfolio. So let's open a new browser and let's go to the OpenAI image generation website. So let's type in open dot A I slash images and there we go and let's type in amazing futuristic web design comma digital arts and let's see what that gives us. So I wouldn't necessarily say these are images of web design, but they do look really nice. So I'm just going to choose three of them and add them to the folder in our visual studio code. All right. So here we are back in visual studio and right here in the folder, you can see I added the three images. So now we can go to the portfolio section which is right here and delete this placeholder name and we can start typing amazing and it will autofill and we can just select the first one here and do the same for the other two for the other two images. And there we go. And if we now hit control s and if we go to the preview in our browser, you can see right now we have these images in there and they are just displayed regularly without being an image slider. And now we are going to transform these three images instead of just being stacked on top of each other to actually be in an image slider. So let's go to Chatgpt and let's say this is my HTML code for an image slider. Please give the javascript code to make it work. And then I'm going to go to visual studio, copy this slider section as control C and I'm going to paste that in chat and let's see if it's under it. All right. So das' javascript codes and also some CSS codes. And it looks like right here, it wants to tell us that we need to link this to our HTML codes, but we already did that. So I'm going to guess that it's not going to give us any more important information below this. So let's just first copy the CSS codes and go to visual studio. Let's go to our CSS file and I think we already have some CSS codes for the image slider. So let's find that and here we have it. And so let's just paste that below there and hope there's no duplication or contradiction between these CSS codes. And let's say it's control s and then let's go to JG BT again. Let's select the javascript codes and copy it. And let's go to our javascript file and paste it just below the previous javascript file. And let's hit control S and let's see if it will now work.

So let's scroll down. Awesome. So as you can see, we have this image slider and it just automatically scrolls through all the images in the slider. But I actually also want buttons so that we are able to scroll through them ourselves. So let's go to chat and let's ask it. I also want buttons with the image slider, so I am able to scroll through it myself and let's see if it can do that. All right. So it gave us this javascript codes and it looks like this javascript code is also going to edit our HTML file a little bit to get the buttons there, which is very nice. And then it also gave us some CSS codes that we can use. So let's copy this javascript codes and let's go to our visual studio code. Let's delete this old image slider code and it's based the new one over it and it's a control S and then let's see what it gave us for the CSS code. So it gave us this button code.

So let's go to our CSS file and let's actually see if we don't already have a button element here. So it says control F to search and let's type in button. And here we use button, but it's the hashtag contact button. So that's not going to be a problem. And here it's also again, the contact button.

And let's see, the older one, it's the header button. So I think we are fine to create CSS code with just the title button. So let's go to this slider part of our CSS code and let's paste the button code in there and it looks like the old CSS code that Davis is just the same as what we already put there. So we don't need to add that. So now it's just hit control s to save it and let's see if this actually works. So let's open it in the default browser and let's scroll down and now it looks like we don't see any of the images, but we do have these buttons and once we click it, the pictures are going to pop up. So this is almost perfect.

But I do want one of the images to be visible when the page loads. So let's go to Chatgpt and let's simply ask it, no image is visible when the page loads. Can you fix this? And I change this Typo? And it's at the end.

And so here it gave us some new javascript codes. But here it says, I'm assuming you have added two buttons to your HTML, which we haven't. And then here it also tells us that we could use some CSS codes. So just ask chap T to provide those HML buttons and also the CSS code for us. So I'm going to ask it, I did not add the buttons to the HTML code.

Please provide a new version of the HTML code for the slider that includes the buttons and please also give the CSS code of the whole slider and it hit enter and it looks like it didn't finish the code. So let's ask it to finish.

All right. So instead of just completing the javascript code, it actually gave us a whole new HTML and CSS code as well.

So it looks like this HML code it gave us first is the same as what it gave us here. So let's just copy this part and let's go to our HTML file and let's replace this slider to control V to paste that. And now, as you can see, it also includes these two buttons in our ATM L code. Then let's copy this CSS code. Let's go to our CSS file and let's select all the slider rules in our CSS file and let's replace that with the new CSS it gave us. And then let's finally also copy the new javascript and let's paste that over the old javascript of the image slider and it's past that and then it's a control s and then it also go to the older files, the CSS file, let's save that one as well and the HTML file. Let's save that and then let's go see if this works. So let's scroll down and there we go. So here we have this image and it loaded right away and now we have these buttons here.

It's not very pretty. So I would have preferred them to be on the side here, but it's very functional and it's fine for now. So I hope you were able to follow along and the javascript isn't too complicated. And I also hope this image slider example showed you how easy it is to have chatgpt, just change the code for you and make adjustments to your wish.

So that's it for this lesson. See you in the next one.

## Cómo conectar un formulario de contacto a una base de datos
